The tales of the Tutinama begin with our main character, Khojisteh. Khojisteh is married and madly in love with her husband, Miemun
One day Miemun went out into the town and purchased a talking parrot. Since Miemun loves Khojisteh so much
he decided to purchase another bird called Sharuk who would accompany the parrot.
One day Miemun decides to go on a journey for a while, he gets on a ship with other men and away he goes.
While Miemun is away Khojisteh finds herself gazing out her window one evening when a handsome prince spots her
Ever since Miemun left she has been sad and lonely. The prince fancies her in return and decides to ask her to accompany him
that evening. At first, Khojisteh did not agree with the proposal, however, as the day reveals
and night casts a veil over her actions, she would wait upon the prince after midnight.
Here we can see Khojisteh awaiting her prince. This portion of the image is especially important because it brings the fairytale principle to the story.
As Khojisteh awaits her prince from her tower we can compare it to a princess awaiting her prince we come and rescue her.
As Khojisteh was thinking of her prince she decided that she would go meet him. That evening she got herself all dressed up and went to speak the Sharuk.
Sharuk told her that she must not commit this action because it would be disgraceful.
The Sharuk made Khojisteh so angry that she seized the bird by both legs and threw her against the ground, killing the bird.
The colour red is most useful in this image because it shows the harsh reality of death in this picture.
The colour red is usually represented with the aspect of death which is why it was used to well in this picture
Now that the Sharuk is dead she decides to speak with the parrot.
The parrot was terrified of Khujasta so rather than telling her what he really thought he decided to tell her the story of a merchant named Farukh Beg
Farukh Beg was a merchant who had a parrot in whom he trusted with all of his goods. Farukh Beg decided to go on a journey
and shortly after his departure his wife met a young Mughul. Every evening following
the wife invited the young Mughul into their home where they slept in the same bed until morning
The parrot saw everything that had happened. When Farukh returned from his trip and found out about his wife and the young Mughul he was angry.
The wife thought that it was the parrot who had told Farukh what had happened and so that evening at midnight she went to the parrot and
plucked away all his feathers and threw the parrot outside. The woman told herself that the parrot was dead, although he was not.
He had learned to survive on the streets and lived in the burying ground. When Farukh had found out
what had happened to his parrot he throws his wife out of the house.
The wife headed to the burying ground where the parrot then told her that he would reunite her with Farukh if she did what he said
She agreed and the parrot told her that in order to be reunited with her husband she must shave her head and remain 40 days without food
and at that time the parrot would pardon her of her sins and reunite the two lovers.
In this image, we can see the woman clearly in the burying ground with the other birds which can show how
unimportant she has become to Farukh Beg who is sitting above on his pedestal.
After the wife had completed the parrots' tasks the parrot said to her “I am the purchased parrot of your lord, and thou art my lady...
I will reunite you and your husband. Be assured of my fidelity, and that I am not a back-biter, and that I should have told our faults to your husband;
but, on the contrary, I have preserved my allegiance”.
The parrot goes off to tell her husband that he can return to her and he does.
The husband went to get his wife back and from that time they lived together in perfect harmony.
The parrot told the story then continued by saying she may arise quickly and find the prince because he would keep her secret.
However, it was now dawn and so instead Khojisteh decided to go to bed instead, and postpone her departure.